h45902
s 00049/00007/00015
d D 1.2 00/12/11 15:53:45 staelin 3 2
c - Major rewrite of man pages
cC
cHhpli8.hpli.hpl.hp.com
cK55596
cZ+02:00
e
s 00022/00000/00000
d D 1.1 94/11/18 01:26:35 lm 2 1
c Initial revision
cC
cK48253
e
s 00000/00000/00000
d D 1.0 94/11/18 01:26:34 lm 1 0
cBlm@lm.bitmover.com|ChangeSet|20000131225335|47351|--LMBENCH--
cHlm.bitmover.com
cK04213
cPdoc/lat_syscall.8
cRb18bb8295c98aaf1
cV4
cX0x21
cZ-08:00
e
u
U
f e 0
f x 0x21
t
lmbench doc checkin
T
I 2
.\" $Id$
.TH LAT_SYSCALL 8 "$Date$" "(c)1994 Larry McVoy" "LMBENCH"
.SH NAME
lat_syscall - time simple entry into the operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lat_syscall
I 3
.I "null|read|write|stat|fstat|open"
E 3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lat_syscall
D 3
times how long it takes to write one byte to \f(CB/dev/null\fP.  This
is useful as a lower bound cost on anything that has to interact with
the operating system.
E 3
I 3
measures how long it takes to do various simple system call
operations.  
.TP
.B null
measures how long it takes to do
.BR getppid .
This is useful as a lower bound cost on anything that has to interact
with the operating system.
.TP
.B write
measures how long it takes to write one byte to \f(CB/dev/null\fP.  
.TP
.B read
measures how long it takes to read one byte from \f(CB/dev/zero\fP.  
.TP
.B stat
measures how long it takes to 
.B stat
a file.
.TP
.B fstat
measures how long it takes to 
.B fstat
a file.
.TP
open
measures how long it takes to
.B open
and then
.B close
a file.  
Note that this does not include the time to read the directories or
inodes from disk, since everything should be in the buffer cache.
E 3
.SH OUTPUT
D 3
Output format is 
.sp
E 3
I 3
Output formats are:
E 3
.ft CB
D 3
Null syscall: 67 microseconds
E 3
I 3
.br
Simple syscall: 67 microseconds
.br
Simple write: 67 microseconds
.br
Simple read: 67 microseconds
.br
Simple stat: 67 microseconds
.br
Simple fstat: 67 microseconds
.br
Simple open/close: 67 microseconds
E 3
.ft
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Funding for the development of
this tool was provided by Sun Microsystems Computer Corporation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 3
lmbench(8).
E 3
I 3
lmbench(8), getppid(2), read(2), write(2), stat(2), fstat(2), open(2),
close(2).
E 3
E 2
I 1
E 1
